[News On AIR | ](https://newsonair.gov.in/author/newsonairadmin/)February 14, 2026 12:19 PM

Top world leaders to attend India-AI Impact Summit in New Delhi next week

The India-AI Impact Summit 2026 will mark a historic milestone in global cooperation on Artificial Intelligence. It will be the first global AI summit to be hosted in the Global South.
Akashvani correspondent reports that the Summit will take place in New Delhi from the 16th to the 20th of this month.
The Summit underlines India’s expanding role in shaping a responsible, inclusive and people-centric AI future. Leaders from twenty countries are scheduled to attend the India-AI Impact Summit in the national capital. Furthermore, Ministerial delegations from over 45 countries will be participating in the five-day event.
The UN Secretary General and Senior Officials from several International Organizations will also join the deliberations. During the Summit, representatives from the Global North and Global South, will present concrete deliverables, including proposals for AI Commons, trusted AI tools, shared compute infrastructure and sector-specific compendiums of AI use cases.
The Summit will host over 700 sessions covering AI safety, governance, ethical deployment, data protection and India’s vision of sovereign AI.
It will also showcase national skilling initiatives such as Yuva AI for All, which is a free and accessible programme aimed at building foundational AI awareness among students and professionals.
The Summit aims to enhance global collaboration, promote shared standards and establish India as a reliable partner in using AI for sustainable development.
World leaders from twenty nations are scheduled to attend the India-AI Impact Summit being hosted by India from 16th to 20th of this month. 
They include President of France, Emmanuel Macron, Brazil President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, President of Spain, Pedro Sánchez Pérez-Castejón, President of Switzerland, Guy Parmelin, Netherlands Prime Minister Dick Schoof, UAE’s Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi, Sheikh Khaled bin Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Prime Minister of Mauritius Dr Navinchandra Ramgoolam, Sri Lanka President Anura Kumara Disanayaka, Vice President of Seychelles, Sebastien Pillay and Bhutanese Prime Minister Tshering Tobgay. 
External Affairs Ministry said in a statement that leaders from Bolivia, Croatia, Estonia, Finland, Greece, Guyana, Kazakhstan, Liechtenstein, Serbia, and Slovakia, are also set to participate in the Summit. 
Ministerial delegations from over 45 countries would be participating in the Summit. 
The UN Secretary General and Senior Officials from several International Organizations will also join the deliberations